we start with the latest from the Israel
Gaza conflict and it's been one of the
heaviest nights of bombardment in Gaza
since the start of the war with Israeli
air strikes hitting the north of the
territory and reports of huge explosions
Israel says it's now effectively divided
Gaza into two parts North and South
further south the Royal Jordanian Air
Force cargo plane has dropped several
containers of humanitarian relief
supplies over the Gaza Strip Jordan's
State News Agency said the consignment
was urgent medical aid for the Jordanian
field Hospital in Gaza Israeli media
Reports say the airdrop was carried out
in coordination with the IDF meanwhile
the US has stepped up diplomatic efforts
in the region the Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin is now in Turkey for
meetings with the country's foreign
minister also the country's CIA director
William Burns is now in Israel
urging greater effort to avoid civilian
casualties and in the last few hours the
White House has said that vice president
Kamala Harris will discuss the conflict
in a phone call with unnamed foreign
leaders later today well let's just show
you that scene live across the Gaza
Strip where it's currently just after
900 a.m. and we'll be bringing you more
on all of those latest developments in
the next half hour but first we're going
to begin our cover
with this report from our Middle East
correspondent Yan
n the Relentless bombardment continues
the latest Israeli strikes in Northern
Gaza among the most intense so far and
once again phone and internet lines were
cut this was yesterday's aftermath
locals say dozens were killed sayed's
wife and daughters were wounded he
searches on for his
neighbors can anyone hear me in
he shouts there are
people this is part of Gaza where
civilians had been told to flee to
Israel's military says it's looking into
whether it was operating in the area at
the
time Israel's ground invasion is
advancing its military says it's now
divided the territory into two and that
it's doing what it can to avoid civilian
casualties for several hours Israeli
forces say they opened a route for
gazans to head south the relatively few
made the
journey on his latest stop in Turkey the
US Secretary of State is hearing calls
for an immediate ceasefire from around
the region Washington backs short pauses
in fighting everyone would welcome the
mara because again it could Advance
things that we're all trying to
accomplish including getting uh hostages
back including getting a lot more
assistance into Gaza including getting
people out of Gaza one of the more than
240 hostages being being held in Gaza is
84-year-old Elma Abraham her family
found this photo online where she's seen
being taken by her Mass her son worries
how she's coping without her
medication right now we are 4 weeks
after that four weeks and one day and
they still not
here and they should be here
yesterday not today yesterday I'm like
in a in some horror movie mov that I'm
stuck but yeah I still have
hope Israel says that without progress
on releasing the hostages it won't agree
to any pause in hostilities for now for
so many each day brings only more
suffering yoland Nell BBC News
Jerusalem so that's the latest from Gaza
itself we're also following developments
overnight further north on Israel's
border with Lebanon Lebanese State media
have reported that three children and
their grandmother were killed by an
Israeli military strike on a car near
the border itself the Israeli military
said it had targeted a vehicle
identified as suspected transport for
terrorists and was checking reports that
civilians had been inside Hezbollah said
it had fired multiple rockets at
Northern Israel in retaliation we're
live now to Lebanon and our News
correspondent Yugo Bacha so what's the
latest on those strikes
Ugo yeah Lua so I think this shows how
tense the situation HS here along the
Lebanon Israel border so this attack
happened last night again the Lebanese
authorities are saying that four
civilians were killed uh and they say
that this was uh after an Israeli strike
that targeted this car not really far
here from our positioning teer in
southern Lebanon and last night it has
po politician said that the group would
retaliate and I think the fear here is
that this could lead to an escalation of
these hostilities here between Hezbollah
uh the powerful Lebanese group and the
Israeli Army I think last week we had uh
the first speech by the leader of
Hezbollah Hassan nzala he did not
announce an escalation of of of those
attacks that have been carried out by
the group but he did leave the door open
for more attacks if uh depending on the
situation on the the ground and he did
say that Hezbollah could return to its
uh rule of Civilian for civilian in
other words if Lebanese civilians were
killed Israeli civilians would be
targeted so last night hasah said he had
retaliated he had launched uh a barrage
of missiles targeting uh positions in
Northern Israel and I think there is the
concern here that this latest attack
that resulted in these four civilians
being killed could lead to an escalation
of the violence here here and uh last
night the Lebanese caretaker prime
minister uh described this attack as a
crime and uh pictures of this car this
you know car that was destroyed after
this U attack uh were widely shared here
on social media on Lebanese television
so again tensions remain really high
along the Lebanon Israel border
obviously the US Secretary of State who
um secretary blinkin is on a tour at the
moment
really trying to calm things down how
significant would it be if Hezbollah
were to enter into this
conflict yeah so after that speech by
Hassan nazala I think there was some
optimism from American officials saying
that they believe that the conflict had
been uh contained uh in Gaza that there
was no sign that the situation here
could escalate and this could become
another front in the conflict but the
reality is that these attacks continue
they have been frequent they have been
happening uh in several locations along
the border so there's always the risk of
miscalculation there's always the risk
that uh a single incident could uh spark
a much more violent confrontation here
so I think that's the fear here hollah
has indicated that these attacks are
going to continue the Israeli
authorities say that they're going to
respond to every single attack coming
from groups uh operating here in
southern Lebanon and obviously I think
some still fear that this violence could
escalate and Lebanon could be dragged
into another conflict and uh if you're
aware of this but I I'll just bring this
to you and our viewers so via the
Reuters news agency we're hearing that
Britain's foreign officers said that
it's temporarily withdrawing some
Embassy staff from Lebanon um have there
been other moves by other
governments yeah we H had in the last
few weeks a number of countries
announcing that they would uh remove
some of their personnel they would uh
also uh they would telling their
citizens to leave the country uh as soon
as they can while commercial flights
were available uh some countries have
also told their citizens to not travel
to Lebanon so I think this is a
reflection of the situation here how
volatile the situation is along the
Lebanon Israel border as this conflict
between Israel and Hamas
continues as ever thank you very much
indeed thank you well we're going to
cross live now to uh Geneva and speak to
tamasa DEA longa who is the spokesperson
for the International Federation of the
Red Cross and red crescent societies
hello there and thank you for joining us
here on BBC News obviously this has or
rather on Sunday night we saw the third
comm's blackout by Israel on Gaza how
has that affected your
agency thanks a lot for me today and
thanks for the question uh yeah it
affected badly because we had for the
first time as you said Total Blackout of
communication with our teams in Gaza and
we're deeply worried about that and even
the other thing that is really
concerning is that the gazin the people
in the Gaza Street will not be able to
contact the Emergency Medical Services
so the ambulance service and this we
already saw in the other two times that
affected our operation and also the
ability of uh ambulances and healthare
workers to reach the people injured or
who need the medical
assistance obviously the Jordanian King
has announced that Medical Aid was
dropped into parts of Gaza I believe the
northern area of Gaza which has been
hard as hit by uh Israel's bombardments
um is there the likelihood that more of
that will take
place well I mean I I I have to say that
um any humanitarian Aid entity in Gaza
it's a positive it's a positive news but
the reality here is that there is not
there is not a continuous flow of
humanit enter in the Gaza Street first
is still a drop in the ocean very
important but still a drop in the ocean
and secondly that we we know at least
from our Hospital of alud in Gaza City
of the pales Cent is that mainly no
humanitarian Aid is entering in the
north and is a great concern all the
civilians in Gaza and all the Care
Facility in Gaza must receive much dity
humanitarian Aid such as medicine and
medical equipments for hospital but also
put the water for
civilians we understand there there have
been two reports of strikes uh on or
near some refugee camps within Gaza the
alour refugee camp and also magazi
refugee camp many of the injured were
then sent to the alifa hospital what can
you tell us about how these hospitals
are
coping well I can tell you that the
health system in Gaza in general is
really on the brink of collapse or
almost collapsed some Care Facility
already closed for lack of fuel or lack
of medicine and then the pressure on the
hospital the still are open is immense I
can tell you that our colleagues in Gaza
City in the auts hospital are telling us
a scene where there are patients
literally everywhere in corridors in the
Halles everywhere and Medicine are
really running out and um fuel is
running out so electricity and then
there is this confusion where people
know exactly what will happen next uh we
had in the last 48 hours different
shelling literally in front of our
hospital that created damages inside the
hospital like Windows broken but also
damages to Intensive Care Unit we can
call them collateral damages but for the
people who are in panic and for the
people who are uh in that hospital it
means really an horrible daily life and
this must
St obviously Israel have announced that
they've effectively split Gaza in two
now North and and South how is that
impacting on your operations and what is
your plan moving forward you're in the
main aloud's hospital is that correct
yes exactly and and then also pal is
running out ambulance service I I have
to say that it's a bit difficult to to
make an assessment at the moment because
the situation is volatile and it's
changing pretty fast what I can say is
that humanitarian teams ambulances heare
workers should have access and should
have a safe and an interet access in
every situation so I I do hope and I do
call on all the parties to make this
happen and to make sure that people who
need health support will get it no
matter if Gaza Strip is divided in two
or three or whatever is the next step
okay Tomaso Del longa thank you for
joining us here on BBC news thank you
thank you